# 1. Project-management-plan

## 1.2 Introduction
I will be speaking and producing a management plan about our ZSL client (london zoo) where we were asked to design and develop a game based around 4 habitats. ZSL were going to use it to help them teach the 11-16 year olds that come into the zoo. It would give the children a more engaging and interactive session. Which ZSL hope will help the student to better understand the work and increase the chances of them remembering and leanring more if the session is fun.

### 1.3 Cost
There are a few things we are going to look at that relate to cost within this project. Firstly, we will look at the cost of the systems we used. These would be the cost of the computers we used during class and my personal system I have at home. The systems at the college cost around £1500 and these were perfect as they had the exact tools we needed, the exact computer specifications that would support what we needed to do and they were also the computers we knew well as we had used them in past projects; and as there were 4 in our group so the costs together would be $6000. Additionally, my home computer is a lot more equipped for this project as I know the ins and outs of it and its computer specifications are a lot more up to date and considerably more power than the ones we have at college. This system costs £1200 which puts our system costs at £7200. Secondly, I’m going to speak about the costs of the time it took for us to complete the project. As we were using this project as a learning experience and not as a profit gain we worked for free as we thought this would benefit us a lot more, because we wanted to improve ourselves as programmers and didn’t feel we were ready to charge them and didn’t feel it necessary or fair. Thirdly, I will discuss the software that we used to complete this project. The standard software that we used were Microsoft word to write down notes, feedback and the requirements and we used power point to create a presentation of our ideas for ZSL (London Zoo) and finally, we used google docs as a way of keeping everyone up to date on the work, as google doc allows us all to work on a document at the same time which updates the document with the new work that has been added. These were both completely free which helped us a lot. Additionally, the main software we used was Unity which is a game developing platform, we used this to create our concept art and create the animations for the game. This license costs around £125 per person for one month, and a we had four group members it would come to a total of £500; so the total system costs are £500. Fourthly, our lecturer took a coach driving course so he could drive us to the London Zoo, I could not find out how much this course cost but this is the way we got to the Zoo and back and we were not told how much it cost as the college paid for the travel and things of this nature. Lastly, we needed a stable internet connection for us to carry out our research and as we were at college we do not know how much it cost them to provide us with it but as I did work at home using the internet I have there; I can use this to calculate how much was spent on internet access. My internet costs £30 per month which puts our known internet cost for the project at £30.

### 1.4 Scope
The main objective of this project was to create a fun, interactive game that the ZSL (London Zoo) teachers/staff could use to better their classes and make sure the 11-16 year olds learnt more, were more engaged throughout the lesson and overall make the children enjoy the lesson a lot more.  The game will consist of 4 habitats which the user/child can pick one at a time which one they would like to play through. Each habitat will have a chain that the users/children will have to complete by dragging the correct part of the chain in its correct position within the chain. As a helping hand we will give them the first part/start and the last/end of the chain; just so they have a small idea of what to do and not confused.

### 1.5 Time
This project had a very small time duration with it. We had 5 weeks in total to design, develop and build the app for ZSL. The first 2 weeks were spent designing all of the images, coming up with ideas and concepts for the game and completing all of our design documentation for the project. Additionally, the first 2 weeks were used to create presentation that we would use to present our ideas to show ZSL our ideas, examples of concept art, how the game would play out, how to play and working prototypes so ZSL could test drive 
our game. The third and fourth weeks were used by used to starting developing and building the actual game. We finalised all of the imagery/concept art and got to work on coding the game from the ground up. Finally, we used the last week to finalize everything, from each line of code to making sure our all of our documentation was complete in full.

### 1.6 Quality
This project meant a alot to everyone in the class as it was our first real client, so we wanted to make sure we made ZSL exceptionally happy with our app. This was was an important project so we needed to make sure we created something that was as professional and high quality as possible. At the end of the project we felt proud of the app we had made as we felt its quality was of a high standard.

### 1.7 Communication
As stated in my Quality (1.6) section before this was a very important project and we wanted to make sure everyone knew what they should be doing and when it should be completed by to descrease the risk of something going wrong and setting us back which is something we could not afford to happen as we did not have much time. Throughout the whole project we made sure everyone was up to date with what was happening. We did this by creating a group chat so we could all communicate effectively with one another. Additionally, we would email/message each other to check up on each other and make sure everyone was on the same page.

### 1.8 Risks
As we did not charge our first client there were only a few consequences/risks that come with failing this project. The most important would be our reputation. As ZSL were our first real client we wanted to make a good impression within the game developing community. If we did not stay true to our word and give them a professional, working app then our reputation would be affected hugely. On the other hand if we did stay true it would path the way for future projects and future clients; as people would find out from ZSL that we are able to design, develop and produce a professional looking app/game. Finally, the other risk/consequence is time. If we dont please our client we risk wasting a huge amount of time which could have been spent elsewhere, for instance on another client we were more fitted for.

### 1.9 Resources
As explain within the Cost (1.1) section we used various tools, techniques and software to make sure we did not displease our client. For instance we used Microsoft Office (Word, Powerpoint, google docs) to complete our documentation and to produce our powerpoint we used to show ZSL our ideas and concept art. We used our interent access to research everything we needed to know about the age ranges (11-16 year olds) that would using/playing our app/game. We used Unity to create the core game mechanics of the game/app. In addition to this we used Adobe photoshop to create our images and concept art for our game/app. The last resource and arguably the most imporant one were the systems we used. This consisted of the computers we used at college and my home computer, which i speak more about in Costs (1.1). These systems were the back bone of our whole project and we not have even been able to start the project if we did not have systems like this that harboured the power and system speecifications that we needed to complete this project.
